=head1 Matrixy

=head2 INTRODUCTION

This is a port of the MATLAB/Octave programming language to Parrot.
It will not be a 100% perfect clone, instead aiming to recreate a
majority of the common syntax and semantics of the M language, and
integrating some of the powerful numerical analysis and linear algebra
tools.

=head2 PRIMARY GOALS

=over 4

=item* Create a working compiler

We want to support the majority of the MATLAB/Octave programming language,
but at the same time provide features and interface capabilities as provided
by Parrot

=item* Build a Mathematics Library

We want to produce a large library of routines that can be used for
mathematical analysis and linear algebra

=item* Be Interoperable

M is a very natural choice for performaing mathematics and linear algebra
computations. We want developers of other compilers and projects to be able
to use Matrixy seemlessly for all their specialized mathematics needs.

=back

=head2 IMPLEMENTATION

This project is broken into these primary components:

=over 4

=item* The Parser

Located in the C<src/parser/> directory. The
parser proper is composed of three source files, F<grammar.pg> which is a
Perl6Grammar file, and F<actions.pm> which is the associated actions file
written in NQP, and F<grammar-oper.pm> which is the operator precidence parser.
In addition, several helper functions used by the parser are located in
C<src/internals>.

=item* Function Library

Located in the F</toolbox> and F<src/builtins/> directories. These functions are
written in a mixture of PIR and M. Functions will attempt to have names, behavior,
and calling semantics which are the same as those found in MATLAB and Octave.
Additional functions may be added as well.

=back

=head2 DEPENDENCIES

Matrixy depends on these dependencies:

=head3 Parrot

To get a proper version of Parrot to build Matrixy, you will need to check out
and build Parrot from source:

    svn co http://svn.parrot.org/parrot/trunk parrot
    cd parrot
    perl Configure.pl
    make && make test && make install-dev

NOTE: Must be Parrot 1.6.0 or higher. This requirement is subject to change.

=head3 Parrot-Linear-Algebra

The linear algebra package for Parrot is available separately and provides
functionality required by Matrixy. This includes matrix data types and matrix
manipulation libraries.

parrot-linear-algebra can be obtained from:

L<http://github.com/Whiteknight/parrot-linear-algebra

The F<Configure.nqp> step of the build process will fail with an error message
if the parrot-linear-algebra package is not properly installed and available
on your system.

=head2 BUILDING

Once all dependencies are in place, you can build Matrixy using this sequence of
commands:

    parrot-nqp Configure.nqp
    make test

Notice that Parrot must be properly installed on your system and the C<parrot-nqp>
binary must be located in your PATH. On your system, you may need to replace "make"
with another variant such as "gmake", "nmake", or "mingw32-make".

=head2 CONTACT

If you need to contact the Matrixy team, go to the project home page at:

http://www.github.com\Whiteknight\matrixy

